# Face-detection-OpenCV-project
This project is based on face detection using python and libraries like opencv,numpy,matplotlib and haar feature based cascade classifier

Face detection is a computer vision technology that helps to locate/visualize human faces in digital images. This technique is a specific use case of object detection technology that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings or cars) in digital images and videos. With the advent of technology, face detection has gained a lot of importance especially in fields like photography, security, and marketing.

This Face Detection Project is developed for our Security CCTV Police,our Indian army and even for common use of people to detect a face in single and group of people in Images. Today in the world, Security is advancing to detect the terrorist and criminals easily in crowd. This Project will easily detect faces even old\blur Images with very less time of execution. This Face Detection Code can be deployed and used in any application camera, security apps and website to find faces easily.

This project gives an ideal way of detecting and recognizing human face using OpenCV, and python which is part of Machine learning. It contains the ways in which Machine learning, an important part of computer science field, can be used to determine the face using several libraries in OpenCV along with python. This System will contain a proposed system which will help in the detecting the human face in real time. This implementation can be used at various platforms in machines and smartphones, and several software applications.
